---
title: "Git"
categories: [Apple]
---

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
* Do not remove this line (it will not be displayed)
{:toc}

# 日常命令

tag 某个 commit：`git tag r20191211_3.4.4 ff5aeaa`

To push a single tag: `git push origin r20191211_3.4.4`

push branch to remote: `git push -u origin branchname`

Delete tag on remote: `git push --delete origin tagname`

查看 remote 信息：`git remote show origin`

强制重置 master 到当前的提交：`git branch -f master`

强制切到远端最新：`git checkout -B master origin/master`

查看某个文件的修改记录：`git log -p filename`

# gitignore

How to remove files that are listed in the .gitignore but still on the repository?

```sh
git rm -r --cached .
git add .
git commit -m "Drop files from .gitignore"
```

# lfs

Git Large File Storage (LFS) is an open source Git extension for versioning large files by replacing large files with **text pointers** inside Git, while storing the file contents on a remote server.

远端还是保存了大文件的每一个版本，远端仓库的大小并不会因为用了 LFS 而减小。减小的是你的本地仓库。因为本地仓库中并不保留所有的文件版本，而是仅根据需要检出版本中必需的文件。

## Step-by-step

Install: `brew install git-lfs`

Set up Git LFS for your user account (only once per user account): `git lfs install`

In Git repository where you want to use Git LFS: `git lfs track "*.psd"`, or directly edit your `.gitattributes`

Make sure .gitattributes is tracked: `git add .gitattributes`

For any pre-existing files, use the `git lfs migrate` command.

Just commit and push as you normally would!

## Migrate

The `import` mode converts Git files to Git LFS, while the `export` mode does the reverse, and the `info` mode provides an informational summary.

First, run `git lfs migrate info` to list the file types taking up the most space in your repository.

When converting files to or from Git LFS, the `git lfs migrate` command will only make changes to your local repository and working copy, never any remotes. This is intentional as the `import` and `export` modes are generally "destructive" in the sense that they **rewrite your Git history**, changing commits and generating new commit SHAs. Once you are satisfied with the changes, you will need to force-push the new Git history of any rewritten branches to all your remotes.（用了这个命令后，所有 commit 历史会被重写，拥有新的 SHA 值）

`git lfs migrate import --include="opencv2"` 将 opencv2 的二进制转换成 LFS，此时会看到本地磁盘里的文件变成了文本指针。

The working copies of these files can be repopulated with their full expected contents by using `git lfs checkout`
