---
title: "Shell学习"
categories: [Development]
---

You can find out what shell you are using: `echo $SHELL`

`echo $PATH`: contains a colon separated list of directories indicating where the Unix operating system expects executable programs to be found

`echo $EDITOR`: default editor

`pwd`: Specifies the current working directory.

`echo $USER`: the current user

`echo $RANDOM`: Contains a random integer which changes each time the variable is referenced.

If you are using SH or some variant you can change environment variables temporarily from the command line using the following syntax: `export NAME=value`.

Manual page: `man command`

We can specify the shell we want to interpret in the first line: `#!/bin/bash`

We use `>` to redirect stdout to a file.

Surrounding anything within single quotes causes it to be treated as literal text that is it will be passed on exactly as intended.

`grep` searches the given file for lines containing a match to the given strings or words.

`pwd` which directory you are in

`ls -a` see all hidden files

`rm -r` to delete a directory

`echo` -- write arguments to the standard output

`cat` is to display the contents of a file

`w` list all of the currently logged in users

`last` most recent login attempts

`less /etc/passwd` (view available users)

`less /etc/group` (view available groups) each user has a private.

add user: `sudo useradd -m olivia`

set password for user: `sudo passwd olivia`

`addgroup readers`

Add user to a group: `sudo usermod -a -G readers nathan`

三种权限组：owner, group, all users

三种权限：

- read(r=4): read the contents of the file
- write(w=2): write or modify a file or directory
- execute(x=1): execute a file or view the contents of a directory

Viewing the Permissions: `ls -l`

- The first character is the special permission flag that can vary.
- The following set of three characters is for the owner permissions.
- The second set of three characters is for the Group permissions.
- The third set of three characters is for the All Users permissions.

在本地电脑上压缩：
`local$ tar zcvf name.tar.gz directory`

然后上传到远端的 home 目录：
`local$ scp localfile user@ip:~/`

从远端下载文件：
`username@remote:/file/to/send /where/to/put`

解压缩：
`$tar zxvf name.tar.gz`

To print run-level: `systemctl get-default`

To print system version: `cat /etc/redhat-release`
