---
title: 'React Native'
categories: [Development]
---

# Get Started

搭建环境。

# Basics

JSX lets you **write your markup language inside code**. `<View><Text>Hello world!</Text></View>`. This is JSX - a syntax for embedding XML within JavaScript. Many frameworks use a specialized templating language which lets you embed code inside markup language. In React, this is reversed.

Anything you see on the screen is some sort of **component**. A component can be pretty basic - the only thing that's required is a render function which returns some JSX to render.

There are two types of data that control a component: **props and state**. props are set by the parent and they are fixed throughout the lifetime of a component. For data that is going to change, we have to use state.

Most components can be customized when they are created, with different parameters. These creation parameters are called [props](https://reactnative.dev/docs/props), short for properties.

Your own components can also use props. This lets you make a single component that is used in many different places in your app, with slightly different properties in each place by referring to `this.props` in your render function. `<Greeting name='Rexxar' />`

In general, you should initialize [state](https://reactnative.dev/docs/state) in the constructor, and then call `setState` when you want to change it.

_When setState is called, BlinkApp will re-render its Component_.

# Styles

All of the core components accept a prop named **style**. The [style](https://reactnative.dev/docs/style) prop can be a plain old JavaScript object. That's the simplest and what we usually use for example code.

You can also pass an array of styles - the last style in the array has precedence, so you can use this to _inherit styles_. `<Text style={[styles.bigBlue, styles.red]}>bigBlue, then red</Text>`

Height and width:

- fixed: `<View style={{width: 100, height: 100}} />`
- flex: `<View style={{flex: 1}} />`

Normally you will use `flex: 1`, which tells a component to fill all available space, shared evenly amongst other components with the same parent. The larger the flex given, the higher the ratio of space a component will take compared to its siblings.

A component can specify the layout of its children using the [flexbox](https://reactnative.dev/docs/flexbox) algorithm. You will normally use a combination of `flexDirection`, `justifyContent` and `alignItems` to achieve the right layout.

- flexDirection controls the direction in which the children of a node are laid out. This is also referred to as the main axis. (`column`, the default value, Align children from top to bottom.)
- justifyContent describes how to align children within the main axis of their container. (`flex-start`, the default value, Align children of a container to the start of the container's main axis.)
- alignItems describes how to align children along the cross axis of their container. (`stretch`, the default value, Stretch children of a container to match the _extent_ of the container's cross axis.)
  - alignSelf has the same options and effect as alignItems but instead of affecting the children within a container, you can apply this property to a single child to change its alignment within its parent. alignSelf overrides any option set by the parent with alignItems.

The position type of an element defines how it is positioned within its parent. `relative` (default value) By default an element is positioned relatively.

# Gestures

Users can use a combination of gestures, such as tapping on a button, scrolling a list, or zooming on a map.

Users interact with mobile apps mainly through [touch](https://reactnative.dev/docs/handling-touches): `Button`, `TouchableHighlight`,`TouchableNativeFeedback`, `TouchableOpacity`, `TouchableWithoutFeedback`, etc.

The `ScrollView` is a generic scrolling container that can contain multiple components and views.

The `FlatList` component displays a scrolling list of changing, but similarly structured, data. Unlike the more generic ScrollView, the FlatList only renders elements that are currently showing on the screen, not all the elements at once. If you want to render a set of data broken into logical sections, maybe with section headers, similar to UITableViews on iOS, then a `SectionList` is the way to go.

# Networking

<https://reactnative.dev/docs/network>

React Native provides the Fetch API for your networking needs.

React Native also supports WebSockets, a protocol which provides full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection.
