---
title: "Ruby"
categories: [Development]
---

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
* Do not remove this line (it will not be displayed)
{:toc}

# Installing Ruby

[The definitive guide to installing Ruby gems on a Mac](https://www.moncefbelyamani.com/the-definitive-guide-to-installing-ruby-gems-on-a-mac/)

某些 gem 的安装教程告诉读者，只要能够运行 `ruby -v` 就可以顺利运行 `gem install xx` 来安装 gem。但这在 macOS 上会得到错误信息：

```sh
ERROR: While executing gem ... (Gem::FilePermissionError)
You don't have write permissions for the /Library/Ruby/Gems/2.6.0 directory
```

macOS returns this error because the default location for Ruby gem installations is the system Ruby directory that is preinstalled by Apple. That directory is not meant to be modified. Using sudo to install gems, or changing permissions of system files and directories is strongly discouraged, even if you know what you are doing.

The solution is: install a separate version of Ruby that does not interfere with the one that came with your Mac!

```sh
# 1. Install Homebrew
# 2. Install the latest Ruby
brew install ruby
# 3. Update the `PATH` environment variable
echo 'export PATH="/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

To verify that you are using the Homebrew version of Ruby, run this command: `which ruby`, you should see `/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin/ruby`.

`/usr/local/opt` 这个目录存放的都是一些软链接：

```sh
cd /usr/local/opt
ls -l
...
lrwxr-xr-x  1 zhouyian  admin   22 Jun 15 17:53 ruby -> ../Cellar/ruby/2.7.1_2
```

只需要在命令提示符中键入 `irb`，一个交互式 Ruby Session 将会开始。

# RubyGems

Ruby ships with RubyGems built-in.

`gem search ^cocoapods$ -d`

The `search` command lets you find remote gems by name. You can use regular expression characters in your query. If you see a gem you want more information on you can add the details option `-d`.

`gem list` The list command shows your locally installed gems.

`gem uninstall drip` The uninstall command removes the gems you have installed.

Use `gem environment` to find out about your gem environment.

You can tell RubyGems to install into your user directory by configuring the RubyGems environment. Edit your `.bash_profile`:

```sh
export GEM_HOME=$HOME/.gem
export PATH=$GEM_HOME/bin:$PATH
```
